## Flask 2 Tutorials

This Flask 2 tutorial is split into two sections. The first section "Quick and Dirty" will give you a very basic and quick overview of Flask. Following the Model-View-Controller (MVC) pattern, you'll learn to setup basic routing, define what the responses for each should look like, setup a database and create/read/update/delete records, and finally how to deploy the entire application. This section will teach you the very basics without paying too close attention to advanced programming patterns and best practices. 

The second section "The next level" takes a more advanced approach. It starts with the best practices of building a mid-size to large application with Flask. You'll learn to create a clean and maintainable project structure and write automated tests. Then, it covers several of the most common web development topics and patterns such as data validation, error handling, building APIs, or authentication. While it's recommended you go through the exercise in the presented order, this section is also split into groups. Each group can be taken individually after completing the "Quick and Dirty" section. 

### 1 Quick and Dirty

- Overview and Setup

- Controller 1: Basic Routing (returning just text) - HTTP methods
- Controller 2: Dynamic Routing (return text from dictionary or list)
- Controller 3: Request parameters: Query Strings
- Controller 4: Request parameters: Form data

- View 1: Response types: Text, HTML, JSON, files
- View 2: HTML Response: Templates & Jinja Basics (render variable)
- View 3: Templating with Jinja (for-loop, conditions, filters)

- Model 1: Setup a database with an ORM
- Model 2: Define models & data types
- Model 3: Generate SQLite database tables from models (through the command line)

- Model 4.1 (CRUD) Create database records
- Model 4.2 (CRUD) Query and filter filter records
- Model 4.3 (CRUD) Update records
- Model 4.4 (CRUD) Delete records

- Deployment to Heroku (custom server gunicorn, postgres)

### 2 The Next Level

- Structure 1: Separating app, config, and server
- Structure 2: Blueprints and separate files for models views and controllers
- Structure 3: The factory pattern

- Testing 1: Setup Pytest
- Testing 2: Unit testing simple routes (for different response types. status codes)
- Testing 3: Unit testing routes with database interactions
- Testing 4: Unit testing models
- Testing 5: Unit testing authenticated routes
- Testing 6: Mocking & APIs

[Technically "How do I test this" should be part of each topic]

- Advanced Controllers 1: Exception Handling & Logging (try-except, custom logging)
- Advanced Controllers 2: Request Data Validations (forms or other request data)
- Advanced Controllers 3: Custom responses (errors, status code)
- Advanced Controllers 4: Custom Error Pages (404 etc)

- APIs 1: Building a JSON serializer
- APIs 2: Setting custom headers
- APIs 3: Token-based authentication
- APIs 4: Paginating data

- Advanced Models 1: Model Relationships
- Advanced Models 2: Paginating server-rendered views with Jinja

- Authentication 1: Create a user model
- Authentication 2: Registration & Password hashing
- Authentication 3: Login & Logout with Flask Login
- Authentication 4: Protecting routes with flask login
- Authentication 5: The 'current_user' object with Flask Login

- Authorization 1: Roles
- Authorization 2: Access Control Lists

- Cookies & Sessions

- File Uploads

- Sending Emails

- Putting it all together: Build a full stack Flask App Demo




BONUS:
- load testing with locust
- security test 